If you are running any ads in Google in
2022, you need to watch this video
because even if you do have a good
campaign structure, you've got great
ads, and you've got a great landing
page, if you don't have a very clear and
precise optimization strategy that
you're running that tells you what you
need to optimize every 72 hours, every
week, every month, and every 3 months,
you are limiting the level of success
that you can see in your Google Ads
campaign. My name is Aaron Young, and
I'm your 15,000-hour Google Ads master.
Why do you need a Google Ads
optimization process? The reason is very
simple. Google Ads is always changing
the game. Ultimately, you need to
remember that Google Ads is the way that
Google makes money. So, it wants people
to click on the ad, but for us as
business owners, we want people to
convert. We don't only want people to
click on our ads, we want them to go to
our website and finish that conversion
so that us as the business owner, we can
get more money. And what I want to give
you in this video is my Google Ads
optimization checklist. The reason why I
use this Google Ads optimization
checklist is that I've seen it very,
very quickly in the space of a couple of
months see campaigns improve their
results by more than five times. And
that's what I want to see for your
business and your Google Ads campaign in
2022. Let's go. Before I take you
through my Google Ads optimization
checklist, what I wanted to actually
show you is the type of results that you
can actually see by following this
step-by-step process of a structured and
organized calendar for when you're going
to be doing different optimization
actions in Google Ads. I've actually
broken this window down to the first 6
of this campaign, and I've broken this
down into monthly segments. So, what you
can actually see through here is in June
this year, they're starting off with 23
conversions a month. From about October,
we started to see these results
skyrocket, so that we're getting over
100 a month, and in December, we got 135
a month, which actually saw a 4 and 1/2
X, so 4.5 * X growth in 6 months. The
other good thing is as you can see that
this wasn't just a once-off month, this
is sustainable in October, November, and
December, and already in January, we're
seeing very similar results. What I also
do want to show you is not only did we
see that increase in your actual
conversions, we actually saw a monthly
improvement in your cost per click. Now,
that's a really key factor, so you can
actually see from here in June, we're
paying up to $3.75 a click. In July,
that that went over the $4 mark to
$4.20, but then from there, going
through this optimization process, we're
able to step down and decrease the
amount of money that we're paying per
click. So, we brought that down to $3.41
in August, and then since October, we've
got that below the $2 mark to December,
where we got that down to $1.75, but
remembering that was also when we
started to see that really big increase,
especially in those phone call leads.
So, what we're actually getting is we're
getting a higher level of conversion for
a lower cost, which is the ultimate
goal. So, what I want to do now is
actually take you through the
step-by-step process that I go through
every week to focusing on different
optimization actions. Right here is the
actual checklist that I go through and
use for all of my accounts. See, this is
like my playbook. And the power in this
is that this actually lets you know what
optimize actions you need to undertake
every 72 hours, every week, every month,
and every 90 days. Now, the reason why
that is so important is because for
success in Google Ads isn't just a
matter of waking up on a Monday and go,
"Oh, I might check ad copy today." And
then going back on Wednesday or Thursday
go, "Oh, I might check how my keywords
are doing." Is because there's some
things in Google Ads which you need to
check all of the times, and then there's
other things in Google Ads which you
actually don't want to check on a daily
basis or a weekly basis, you actually
want to check them every month, and
there's some other actions that you
don't actually want to check until every
3 months. The reason for that is that
you have to remember that underlying all
of our manual optimizations is that
Google runs its own AI or its own
automatic learning. So, we need to be
able to actually give Google Ads time
for it to be able to target and make
their own automatic changes. And that's
especially important when we get down to
some of these actions in and around your
audience and your demographic targeting.
But the five things that I want to take
you through today is we're going to go
look through our keyword search terms,
which this is an action which needs to
be done every 72 hours. I'm also going
to take you through an ad review, which
some components we do on a weekly basis,
and then others we do on a monthly
basis. And then I also actually want to
take you through our quality score,
which is also another check that we only
do on a monthly basis. And then when we
get down to our bid optimizations and
audience and demographic targeting, that
is something that we want to be doing on
a 90-day basis. And the fifth thing that
I want to take you through in our Google
Ads optimization check is these
conversion action checks, location
targeting, and then also some of your
call campaign goal settings. Now, before
we get into this, one thing that I do
want to point out to you is that I will
actually give you access to this full
Google Ads optimization checklist. I'm
going to put it in the link below, so
please don't feel like you've got to
recreate this. This is going to be yours
for free, and I'll share it in my link
description. The first thing that you
want to be doing is your keyword search
review. Now, there's two main components
of a keyword search review. The first
one is actually what we call your search
term audit, and this is something that
needs to be done every 72 hours. And
this is especially true for a new
campaign, any campaign that's under 1
year old, be doing this every 72 hours,
so every 3 to 4 days. Generally for me,
I'll go through and do this on a Monday
or Tuesday, and then I'll also follow up
and do this on a Friday. And then the
second component of what we want to do
when we're checking our keywords is that
we do actually want to go through the
different match types, and also just do
some manual checks on looking at which
of the keywords which have a higher CPC
compared to the account average, and
also which keywords have a higher cost
per conversion. So, firstly, let's start
off with the search term audit. Now, for
the search term audit, I like to break
this down into different ad groups, and
you can this is something that you
complete at the ad group level. And the
reason for that is because what cuz
we've got our keywords grouped into one
ad group, we want to make sure that
we're only checking off all keywords
that have the same similar theme. So, we
go into our ad group, you want to go
into keywords, but you actually don't
want to go into search keywords, you
want to come down here and go into
search terms. Now, I'll also do this
over the last 7 days, and what this is
actually showing you is this is actually
showing you the actual search terms that
users typed into Google for your ads to
trigger. So, it is different to your
keyword targeting. And what I generally
do is we make sure that we've got a good
grab of about 100, and then you're just
looking through line by line, and you're
looking to actually see is is there
anything that it's triggering ads that
we actually don't want to bid for. Now,
I've seen one in here, which is air
conditioner cleaning bags. As a brief
overview for this campaign, they do air
conditioning servicing and air cleaning
air conditioners. So, this is something
that they don't actually want done in
here, and then I go through and also do
some other checks. I've also seen in
here where you can see air conditioning
service Gladstone. The reason why I'm
checking that out is because this
campaign is targeting Brisbane. For
people who don't know the geography on
that, the difference between Brisbane
and Gladstone is you're looking at
around about a 3 to 400 km. Due to
location, we want to target that out.
it's just a matter of clicking on the ad
as a negative keywords, and doing your
search term audit is as simple as that.
Just going through each individual ad
group, running on a shorter time frame
of 7 days, and going through line by
line, and just adding in any extra
negative keywords which you want to add.
The second thing that we do is looking
at your search keywords. Now,
remembering the difference in here
between keywords and terms is keywords,
these are the actual keywords which we
are targeting versus the search terms
are the actual keywords which people
were typing in to actually trigger your
ad. And what you generally want to look
at here is now with when you're looking
at these ones, I like to look at a
little bit of a bigger grab, about 30
days. What I'm looking at here is any
keywords that have a really high cost
per click or a really high cost per
conversion. So, we can see here this one
here, air conditioning service, it has a
cost per conversion of $34, which is
really high for this campaign. And in
that circumstance, what I'll even do is
I'll go back and look at the last 60
days just to see if there's any further
trends that we need to be looking at
here. And you can see here that air
conditioning service, long term that has
been running in and around about $12.
So, I'm okay with that, and the reason
why I'm not actually getting rid of that
keyword is because we're still going
through and adding in extra negative
keywords all the time in those search
term audits. So, it's something I'm
happy with at the moment, but what you
can do in that circumstance is that you
can actually go through and make a
little bit of a note, and what we'd do
here is we would select this, we can
copy it, and then in this section here,
we go keywords with a high cost per
click or keywords with a high cost per
conversion. I can just copy that in, we
can just type in here, and then that's
just putting a note so that next time
when I come through and do this check,
I've already got a note there that I
know that I'm currently reviewing this
term, air conditioning service, and then
when we've got more data, we can make
that decision as to whether we want to
pause that keyword or whether we're
happy to keep that keyword in there. The
second thing that we want to check is we
want to do our ad copy review.
Now, this is something that we want to
be doing on a weekly basis, but similar
to how we did our keyword checks is that
even though we're going to be checking
these on a weekly basis, you do want to
also look at longer term data, whether
that would be 30 or 60 days. So, to
complete this task is that we go into
our campaign section. Once again, do
this ad group by ad group. So, we click
an ad group, and then we want to go into
our different ads. So, let me firstly
just show you the difference in the last
7 days. So, we're We're doing two ads in
this ad group, and the reason why we've
only got two ads in this ad group is cuz
one of these ads is a responsive search
ad. So, we are also adding in extra
testing in the headlines and
descriptions. We can see here that there
is quite a big variance. Once again,
this expanded text ad is outperforming
this responsive search ad, but if we do
go through and look at the last 30 days,
we just want to double-check, we can
actually see that those results have
switched over in that the responsive
search ad did have a better performing
cost per conversion. So, with this at
the moment, I just go through and have a
look at. I'm happy the click-through
ratios are very similar, the cost per
clicks are similar. Even though the
extended text ad does have a higher cost
per click, what we're looking at here is
this is generating more conversions. So,
overall, when we look at the whole
profile of the click-through ratio, the
CPC, and the cost per conversion, I'm
really happy with how that is performing
at the moment, and I want to allow this
test to go through further. So, I'm not
going to be making any further changes.
If you were to see this, so for example,
if we were to look at this 7-day result,
and if this 7-day result was to be
extended for 30 days or 60 days, that's
when we would go in and start actually
making some updates and edits to this
individual ad so that we can start doing
some regular testing again and making
sure that this is performing okay. The
other thing that we do want to look at
with this cost per conversion is also
remembering how that sits in with your
total campaign performance. Remember
that I know for this account, our total
account is running at around about $15
cost per conversion. So, we know that
this ad group right from the start is
outperforming the whole campaign. So,
we're really, really happy with how this
is tracking. And then what we can do is
we can go back into our Google Ads
optimization checklist, and under this
section, just type in another note
saying, "Checked ads, happy with
performance. I'll come back and check
again in another 30 days." When I am
making these notes in around about
different ad groups as well, what is
also really good is sometimes you may
want to actually write in a date mark.
So, we can go at the moment, today's the
10th of January, so we can go the 10th
of January, and then we can make our
notes about our ad copy there so that we
know we've checked those results on the
10th of January. The third thing that we
want to be looking at on our Google Ads
optimization check is our quality score.
Now, this is a check that we want to be
doing on a monthly basis, so we're not
going to be doing this every single time
we're in Google Ads. Now, if you're
unfamiliar with this term, quality score
is a metric that Google gives your
keywords, and it's a score out of 10
with 10 being the highest. And you want
to be playing, ideally, in those eights,
nines, and 10s. If you get down to sort
of seven, that's okay, but what you
really want to be avoiding is you want
to be making sure that you're above
five, because if you're under five, what
is going to be happening is that you're
actually be paying a higher cost per
click. And while this is really
important, the reason why you only want
to check this on a monthly basis is
because your quality score is a metric
that's not only driven by your ad copy,
but it's also driven by what your
content says on the actual landing page.
So, it can take a little bit longer for
these changes to materialize in Google
Ads. So, that's why you don't want to be
checking these every 7 days, because
when you make those changes, it can take
two to three weeks or even a month for
those quality scores to move. To check
your quality scores, you actually want
to go into all of your campaigns. So, we
can go search campaigns, then we go into
keywords. We want to keep it in
keywords, not search terms. And what you
actually want to make sure is that there
is actually a column here called quality
score. Now, if you don't see quality
score on your screen, you want to go
into columns, modify columns, and then
you've got an option to actually add in
your quality score. And then you've got
an option to add in your quality score.
We've got it down here. To make it
easier, I'll just drag it up the top,
and then we apply those changes. So, we
can see our quality score in here. Now,
when I'm looking at quality score is I
want to be looking at how is the quality
score of my keywords performing on those
search terms which have the highest
impressions. And as you can see through
here, through the keywords that we have
the highest impressions in this account,
we've got all of them at, you know,
eights out of 10s, 10 out of 10s. We do
have one which is a three out of 10.
Now, when we go to that, what I would
basically do is if we do see this with a
lower quality score, I then go into that
actual individual ad group, and then I
look to see how that's performing inside
the rest of that actual ad group. So, we
can actually see here, this is the
quality score that we're looking at,
pest control service. And when I look at
that with the remaining of the ad group,
we can actually see here that this
actually does have quite a lot of
impressions. So, this is actually a
keyword which is worthwhile improving.
Now, the way that we go about that is we
need to do two things is that we would
need to actually increase the keyword
targeting for pest control service on
our ad copy, but also improve it in our
landing page. But for the purpose of
this video, what I want to do is I just
show you that we've highlighted that,
and then we write that into our Google
Ads optimization checklist. So, then we
want to go down into quality score, and
then once again, as we said before, I
always like writing the date, so we can
write the 10th of January. Then I want
to write the keyword, which is pest
control service, and then I want to make
some notes, a low quality score of three
out of 10. Now, if we were to go in
today and actually go through and fix
that, we could actually make those notes
down here on the 10th of the 1st, and we
could go that we updated the ad copy,
and also made changes to our landing
page. We then know that we've made those
changes on this date, so then we can
come back once again in February and
review those results. So, to fix this
issue, what we would need to do is we'd
need to go into our ad copy, so pest
control service. We can see here that we
are actually mentioning pest control
service. So, when we actually look here
on the landing page, so we can see here
that we do have pest control, want to
live in a pest-free environment, we've
got our pest control services here, but
there would be a recommendation of what
we would need to do is it's seen here in
this heading, we would actually want to
add in that term service, so pest
control service. So, now that I've gone
through and actually checked to see what
the issue with is with that low quality
score, I've made this note. And what we
said in here is that we checked the ad
copy, we're happy with the keyword
mentions, but we need to work with the
client to increase the keyword targeting
on the landing page. And then it's just
a matter of once we've gone through and
worked with the client to make that
change, that might take a week, so then
a week from now we can go, you know, the
17th of the 1st, changes were made. So,
now you can actually see that when we're
actually using this spreadsheet, we're
keeping our own record and like a
balance sheet of what changes we're
making, so then we know for that
individual pest control service keyword
is that we're not likely to check that
again until 30 days after those landing
pages have been made. All right, number
four, what I want to talk to you in our
Google Ads optimization checklist is
looking at our bid optimizations. Now,
this is talking to our audience and
demographic targeting. Now, this is one
of those ones that we actually only want
to check every three months or 90 days.
And the reason for that is because we
want to allow a lot of data to actually
go through those different audience
groups and demographic targeting so that
we've got enough volume going through
before we can make some of these
high-end decisions. Now, what I do also
want to point out is that these changes
are some of the things which are really,
really key to your account performance.
If we go back to our initial results, so
let's go through the overview. Remember
when we were talking about these
results, you saw that there was a really
big skyrocket of results after about 90
days. Now, this is the reason for that
is because in that first 90 days of the
campaign, we were getting these audience
data coming through, and once we had
that data coming through after about the
90-day mark, we were able to lock in
some of these bid optimizations because
we were confident with the data that we
had received. So, the two things that
you want to be doing, so you want to be
making sure that you're actually adding
in potential audiences. Now, this is
something that I do check every 7 days.
And the way that we do that is that we
just want to go into your campaigns, go
into your audiences, and then once we're
in this audiences section, we want to go
to edit audience segments. I like to add
these by campaign. We select your
campaign. And what we're looking at here
is we're just looking just to see. Now,
I've already gone through and all of
these, but we're going through looking
through to see is there any new ones
that Google is actually recommending.
But if you did want to, I mean, we've
already gone through all of the pest
control ones, but if you did want to,
you can actually add in your search for
your services. There is some in here,
residential properties, obviously
because what we're looking at with here
is people who have homes, and once
again, homeowners, real estate industry,
and renters. So, we're looking in and
adding in is there any extra audiences
that we can add. Now, remembering here,
there's nothing wrong with adding in as
many audiences as possible because we're
still running this under the observation
method, which means we're not narrowing
the limitations of our campaign. We just
wanting Google to give us extra data.
Okay, so when we want to check this
data, we want to grab a 90-day period,
so let's look back through October,
November, and December. And what we're
looking at here is we're actually going
to be looking at which audience groups
give us the highest number of
conversions. So, you can see here,
there's home and garden. Now, the reason
why I've actually increased this bid
adjustment, and what this bid adjustment
does is let's just say you were willing
to bid $1, by adding a bid adjustment of
30%, you are now saying we're willing to
bid up to $1.30. So, it increases the
focus. It lets Google know that you're
willing to pay more for people who are
within this audience segment. Now, what
I really look at here is I also make
sure that we have always got this search
impression share marker in there. And
that's a share of voice marker, and
that's actually letting us know that at
the moment within the home and garden
audience segment, we're only appearing
on 10% of those available searches. So,
I know that we've got a really big area
to increase that marker. Now, if any of
these were to get high, so once we if we
were to see that this search impression
share for this particular audience
segment was up at around about 80 to
90%, we then know that we actually don't
need to increase this bid adjustment
anymore because we're pretty much
reached that full market penetration.
But obviously, because this is still a
new campaign, we're still growing this.
So, if I wanted to, I could increase
that even further. If you're wondering
why these are copied, it's obviously
because these are going in through the
different campaigns. Once again, we're
seeing this one's at 10% and I can go
there. Look, we've got a cost per
conversion is a little bit higher, so I
don't want to increase that any further.
So, what I'm really looking at is is
there any audience segments which have a
cost per conversion which is lower than
our account average, which for this
account is around about that $15 mark.
So, I can go through here. So, look,
do-it-yourselfers, we're going, look,
that's one that's got a low cost per
conversion of $8. Our search impression
share is underneath that 10%. So,
there's actually some good level of
growth there. So, what we can do is we
can just go through and we might want to
add that in to 15%. The reason why I've
been quite aggressive with that one is
because I'm looking at that cost per
click is a great price for this. We've
got a low cost per conversion. We've got
a high click-through ratio, so I think
that's a really potential area that we
can increase that market. And then what
we can also do is we can also go through
and do the same thing for your
demographics. And those demographics are
broken down by age, gender, and also
household income. So, once again, once
we've made those changes and done those
reviews, we go back into our Google Ads
optimization checklist and we can go in
here, write the date, and go that we
added some extra bid optimizations for
the best performing audience groups. The
last optimization check that I want to
take you through today is our conversion
action checks. Now, this is something
that would very much be what I call like
a quality control check. And we're just
making sure that all of our conversion
actions are working as they should be.
So, to do this one, this is a really,
really quick one. We want to go into our
tools and setting bar, into conversions.
Once again, I would bring this out for
the last 30 days and we're just making
sure that we're not seeing any of these
red inactive tags. Now, I know that I'm
we're seeing these here, but I've just
left them here as an example because we
actually did go through and update that
recording about 3 months ago, so I'm
okay with these ones. So, I can go
through and remove these if I wanted to,
but I'll just keep them there for the
time being. So, just making sure that
all of the conversions that we're
wanting to record are recording
properly. The other time that you would
run this check, if you actually go
through and you start seeing your
conversion actions really drop off and
you have a good period where we know
that we're not getting any conversions.
I know for this campaign, they generally
get majority of their conversion actions
between Monday and Friday. So, I'm happy
seeing these little days like on a
Sunday where we don't see any
conversions, but what I would be looking
at is if we weren't seeing these yellow
and green triggers triggering off very
regularly, I would then know that I need
to go through and actually do some
manual checks to make sure that our
conversion actions are all firing. So,
what we can write here, there, once
again, we can date it, write the 10th of
January, all conversion actions are
working. That's my Google Ads
optimization checklist. I know it's
going to be a great value to your Google
Ads campaign and ultimately provide more
sales and more conversions for your
business, especially if you go through
each line and follow those optimization
actions that you need to complete every
72 hours, every week, every month, and
every 90 days. So, please make sure,
right now, why don't you follow the link
in the description, get your Google Ads
optimization checklist so that you can
start implementing those in your Google
Ads campaign from tomorrow. If you've
enjoyed this video, will you please like
and subscribe? I'd love to see you
around. And why don't you check out my
Google Ads tutorials? In these
tutorials, I take you through
step-by-step process on not only how to
set up your campaign, but more
importantly, how to get your keyword
research right and how to write AdWords
that actually sell, how to write ads
that people will actually click on it,
go to your website, and finish off that
sale or give you the inquiry or the
phone call. Hey, my name is Aaron Young.
Thanks for sticking around. See you next
time.